HISTORY OF THE WORLD CUP 

The World Cup is football's most prestigous award for any footballing nation.
The FIFA World Cup was first held in 1930, when FIFA, the world's football governing body, decided to stage an international men's football tournament
Since then, the World Cup has experienced successive expansions and format remodeling, with its current 32-team final tournament preceded by a two-year qualifying process, involving over 200 teams from around the world.
 
 The 2002 World cup was the first world cup I can remember vividly.
 The 2002 World Cup was the first to be held in Asia, and was hosted jointly by South Korea and Japan. Togolese Souleymane Mamam became the youngest player ever to take to a World Cup preliminary game field at 13 years, 310 days in Lomé in May 2001. 
 Australia defeated American Samoa 31–0 in a preliminary match – a new record for the margin of victory, and the highest-scoring match ever. 
 The tournament was a successful one for teams traditionally regarded as minnows, with South Korea, Senegal and the United States all reaching the last eight. 
 Brazil beat Germany 2–0 in the final for their fifth title. With The (Brazilian) Ronaldo scoring two beautiful goals against Oliver Kahn

The 2006 World Cup was held in Germany. The host nation(s) continue to receive an automatic berth. 
 Four African teams also made their debut in the world cup finals: Togo, Ivory Coast, Angola and Ghana who impressively made it to last 16 by beating the Czech Republic, 
 third ranked in the world, 2–1, along with the United States 2–0, before losing to the defending champions Brazil 0–3.
First seed and holders Brazil and second seeded England were initially English bookmakers' favourites. 
A strong performance by Germany brought them as far as the semi-finals. 
However, the final match-up was between Italy and France, in which French captain Zinedine Zidane was sent off in the last ten minutes of extra time for a headbutt to the chest of Italian central defender Marco Materazzi. 
Italy went on to win 5–3 in a penalty shootout, the score having been 1–1 after 90 minutes and extra time.

The 2010 World Cup was held in South Africa. It was the first cup hosted on African soil, and the cup was won by Spain. 
The tournament was noted for its highly defensive opening matches, controversies surrounding goal-line technology, and the introduction of vuvuzelas. 
Though considered as one of the tournament favorites, the Spaniards won the cup despite scoring only eight goals in seven games and losing their opening match to 
Switzerland. David Villa led the squad in scoring with five goals. In a final which saw a record number of yellow cards distributed and what 
some considered violent play from the Dutch side, the ten-man Netherlands squad were defeated 1–0 in the 116th minute of extra time by an Andrés Iniesta goal.
Germany and Argentina in the final of the 2014 FIFA World Cup: Götze scoring the match winning goal

The 2014 World Cup was held in Brazil, marking the second time that Brazil hosted the competition. The cup was won by Germany, who beat Argentina 1–0 in the final. 
The Netherlands defeated Brazil (who lost to the eventual winners, Germany, 7–1 in the semifinals) 3–0 in the bronze medal game.
Because of the relatively high ambient temperatures in Brazil, particularly at the northern venues, cooling breaks for the players were first introduced during these games.[32] 
In this World Cup there was the debut of sensors to avoid phantom goals with the Goal-line technology, 
\used to determine, in doubtful situations, whether the ball crossed the goal line

The 2018 World Cup was held in Russia. It was the first cup to be held in Eastern Europe. The cup was won by France, who beat Croatia 4–2 in the final. 
Belgium defeated England 2–0 in the bronze medal game. It was also the first cup to use the video assistant referee (VAR) system.

The 2022 World Cup hosted by Qatar will be the first tournament to not be held in summer time in which it is usually held. 
It will take place from 20 November to 18 December 2022.
